Prepare Runtime Director PoC (#50)
kyma-project/control-plane: docs/internal/investigations/runtime-director-dapr/README.md

# Runtime Director - Proof of concept

> This directory contains source code and Helm chart for Kyma Control Plane Runtime Director.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This directory contains the source code and Helm chart for Kyma Control Plane Runtime Director.
```

> Runtime Director 

Reviewer: Either delete this or finish the sentence, please.

## Overview

> Runtime Director exposes simple REST API which returns Runtime configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Runtime Director exposes a simple REST API that returns Runtime configurations.
```

> The application periodically reloads configuration from a ConfigMap `runtime-director-config` in `kcp-poc` namespace. The configuration file has the following form:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The application periodically reloads configuration from the `runtime-director-config` ConfigMap in the `kcp-poc` Namespace. The configuration file has the following form:
```

```yaml
runtimes:
  - id: "1"
    data: # arbitrary data
      foo: bar
  - id: "2"
    data: # arbitrary data
      bar: baz
```

The application reloads configuration every 10 seconds. 

> ## API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Details 

### API
```

> The Application exposes the following endpoints:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The application exposes the following endpoints:
```

- `GET /runtimes`
   

>     Returns configuration for all Runtimes.  

Reviewer: Consider using indented bullet points here. But in this form, it looks fine as well.

    
    Possible error codes: `500`
    
    Example response:
    ```json
    [{"id": "1", "data": {"foo":  "bar"} }, {"id": "2", "data": {"bar":  "baz"}}]    
    ```

- `GET /runtimes/{runtimeId}`
   
    Returns configuration for a given Runtime.  
    
    Possible error codes: `404`, `500`
    
    Example response:
    ```json
    {"id": "1", "data": {"foo":  "bar"} }    
    ```
  
  
## Development  

### Build

> To build source code, navigate to the `./component` directory and run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build the source code, navigate to the `./component` directory and run:
```

```bash
make build-image
```

> ### Run on local machine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Run on a local machine
```

> To run the app without building Docker image, navigate to the `./component` directory and execute the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run the application without building a Docker image, navigate to the `./component` directory and execute the following command:
```

```bash
go run cmd/main.go
```

> The Runtime Director listens on `127.0.0.1:3001`, reloading file from `hack/config.yaml` path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Runtime Director listens on the `127.0.0.1:3001` port and reloads the configuration file from the `hack/config.yaml` path.
```

## Installation

> To install Runtime Director on Kubernetes cluster using Helm 3 in `kcp-poc` namespace, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install Runtime Director on a Kubernetes cluster using Helm 3 in the `kcp-poc` Namespace, run the following command:
```

```bash
LOCAL_ENV=false ./deploy.sh
```

> The script will add proper an `runtime-director.{DOMAIN}` entry to `/etc/hosts`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script will add a proper `runtime-director.{DOMAIN}` entry to `/etc/hosts`.
```

## Configuration

> You can use the following environmental variables while running the `deploy.sh` script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the following environment variables while running the `deploy.sh` script:
```

>  - `LOCAL_ENV` - Does the script run on local environment with Minikube (default: `true`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - `LOCAL_ENV` - a variable that runs the script on a local environment with Minikube (default value: `true`)
```

>  - `DOMAIN` - Used domain on cluster (default: `kyma.local`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - `DOMAIN` - a domain used on a cluster (default value: `kyma.local`)
```

>  - `ISTIO_GATEWAY_NAME` - Istio Gateway name (default: `compass-istio-gateway`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - `ISTIO_GATEWAY_NAME` - Istio Gateway name (default value: `compass-istio-gateway`)
```

>  - `ISTIO_GATEWAY_NAMESPACE` - Istio Gateway namespace (default: `compass-system`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - `ISTIO_GATEWAY_NAMESPACE` - Istio Gateway Namespace (default value: `compass-system`)
```

> For example, to set a different domain and deploy on Kubernetes cluster, and install run the script with the following way:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to set a different domain and install Runtime Director on a Kubernetes cluster, run the script in such a way:
```

```bash
LOCAL_ENV=false DOMAIN=foo.bar ./deploy.sh
```

> ## Verify

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Testing
```

> To verify if the Runtime Director works properly, execute the following command, which returns all Runtime configurations from the mounted ConfigMap].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify if Runtime Director works properly, execute the following command, which returns all Runtime configurations from the mounted ConfigMap:
```
